---
title: "2023 07 23"
date: 2023-07-19T23:40:50+01:00
draft: true
tags:
  - Home Assistant (HA)
---
I recently signed up for Google One. I've had a niggling concern that the hard drive on my PC won't last forever and I wanted somewhere to have a backup in the event of a disaster. Google One seemed to be the most cost effective option for me.

The synchrosisation process completed and then I tidied up Windows.

During that tidy up of Windows files I managed to delete my Home Assistant VM box.

This meant that when VirtualBox tried to start the VM I got the error message: Could not open the medium 'C:\Users\xxx\Downloads\haos_ova-9.2.vdi\haos_ova-9.2.vdi'. It was stupid of me to have it sitting in my Downloads folder anyway.

Now I need to reinstall and try to recover from backup files. Wish me luck!

Here are the steps I hope will work:

1. Install latest version of [VirtualBox](https://virtualbox.org) on Windows 10 (VirtualBox-7.0.8-156879-Win.exe)
2. Follow steps to install HA on VM
3. Install Google Drive backup manager on HA
4. Restore backup files from Google Drive

I got as far as step 1 before thinking to check the recycle bin where I found the missing vdi.

HA appeared to start OK.

Unfortunately my browser couldn't load http://homeassistant.local:8123/lovelace/0

I had this problem before and used the IP address directly  to access HA. Which IP address?

I have a Three ZTE router. I start by looking in the admin panel at http://192.168.0.1 to see what I can find. Note to self: can I whitelist select http addresses so that Chrome does not complain that they are not https?

HA on my phone tells me that it's running version 2023.7. Red herring that's just a changelog of hat was recently installed. No direct connection to my HA server.

The VirtualBox HA screen tells me the IP address is 192.168.0.80

My browser is happy with http://192.168.0.80:8123/

I manage to login -> http://192.168.0.80:8123/lovelace/0

Repair issue
The default configuration for add-ons and Home Assistant has changed. To update the configuration with the new defaults, a restart is required for the following:

Home Assistant

I try that but: Unknown error occurred

Instead I look at the 3 available updates:

1. Home Assistant Core 2023.7.3
2. Home Assistant Operating System 10.3
3. Home Assistant Google Drive Backup 0.111.1

Home Assistant Core upgrades from 2023.6.2 to 2023.7.3 with no errors. I have time to read the [Home Assistant 2023.7 release announcement](https://www.home-assistant.io/blog/2023/07/05/release-20237/).

Home Assistant Operating System upgrades from 10.2 to 10.3 with no errors. 

Home Assistant Google Drive Backup upgrades from 0.110.4 to 0.111.1 with no errors.

After I get HA back in line I hope to add my new Aqara devices and if I can I would like to trigger my Hue lights from my Aqara motion sensor.

First problem: Settings | Devices & Services ==> Error while loading page integrations.

I'll reload HA and hope for the best. Phew, that worked.

I also update HACS from 1.31.0 to 1.32.1

Uh-oh: https://community.home-assistant.io/t/aqara-e1-usb-hub-in-home-assistant/549954

Now I've gone through the Matter route, so after an hour of faffing, I'm back to being hopeful. Illuminance is not being reported to HA via Matter