---
title: "Can I delete 'draft: true'"
date: 2023-07-19T23:41:12+01:00
description: "Does removing the 'draft: true' setting in Hugo front matter allow the post to be published?"
tags:
  - Hugo
---
As usual my 'to do' list is too long.
My desk is a mess and needs to be tidied/cleaned.
I should be doing that rather than typing this.

Adding to my list today:

I'd like to somehow have separate repositories for [my Hugo blog](/hugo) and my Hugo setup. I want to be able to have the Hugo setup as a public repository that *you*, dear reader, can see exactly how it is. I want the [actual blog](/posts) source to be private so that you don't see the draft posts which I don't want to be published to the public, that's *you* again, at least not yet! As far as I can see acheiving this will require a private repository.

The idea behind this entire projext is that I should be able to do it all for free, other than paying the fee for a domain name.

I started out using GitHub but as it doesn't permit any private repositories on its free service. I think maybe I have to start using GitLab which does. Moving to GitLab means yet another learning curve. Also GitLab does not have an Android app. I had a look on my ancient iPad. It's not there either. Also, the GitHub ios app requires iOS 15.0 (or later), so that's no use to me either. I find that the GitHub Android app is quite useful.

Can I perhaps leave the Hugo setup on GitHub but put the Hugo blog on GitLab?

I did a Google search on 'combine github gitlab' and the following need further investigation when I get time:

[Using GitLab CI/CD with a GitHub repository](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/ci_cd_for_external_repos/github_integration.html) is ruled out because it requires a GitLab premium account.

[Import your project from GitHub to GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/import/github.html) ays it works for 'All Tiers'. Ditto [Import your project from GitHub to GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.cn/14.0/ee/user/project/import/github.html), which looks the same but on a China hosted GitLab website.

[How to Use GitLab and GitHub Together](https://steveperkins.com/migrating-projects-from-github-to-gitlab/)

I also want to make some progress on Hugo + StaticMan today. Probably not due to time spent cleaning the desk. Ironically, we have a cleaner who comes today but is not allowed to clean my office because things might get messed up.

Hugo + Staticman is more of a priority because maybe then **you** can answer some of my questions which might help me get this project moving faster than it is.

https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/


Does removing the 'draft: true' setting cause the post to be published? [Yes](/hugo/draft-true)

The '(' (shift 9') key on my keyboard is sticky which is often enough to be annoying. It's maybe time for a new keyboard but which one?

It's now 12 o'clock. The cleaner hasn't turned up and I haven't cleaned my desk yet.
